# MF-SORT

## Introduction
This repository contains an unofficial implementation of the Simple Online and Realtime Tracking with Motion Features (MF-SORT) algorithm, as it was presented in (Fu et al, 2019). It is an extension of the original [SORT](https://github.com/abewley/sort) algorithm using Mahalanobis distance and a matching cascade similar to that of [DeepSORT](https://github.com/nwojke/deep_sort).

I am not the original author of MF-SORT, though this repository represents a close implementation based on the description given in the original publication. See [Fu et al, 2019](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34120-6_13) for further details on the algorithm.

## Dependencies
This code was developed and tested on Python 3.6, though it should run on any recent version of Python (3+). The following dependencies are needed to run the tracker:

* Numpy
* Scipy
* Filterpy

In addition, in order to run the demos contained in the `examples` folder and the built-in detection framework, specify the `yolo` optional dependency when installing with pip.

## Installation and Demo
To install MF-SORT, clone the repository and install the package using pip.

```
git clone https://github.com/kbvatral/MF-SORT.git
cd MF-SORT
pip install .[yolo]
```

The repository contains one minimum working example using a video file and an associated CSV file of object detections found in the `examples` folder. The object detections were generated through YoloV5 using the Detector interface, though any object detector could be used.

To re-generate the provided detections, simply run `examples/detect.py`. To run tracking on the demo video with the provided detections, simply run `examples/track.py`, which will produce a CSV file containing the generated tracks in the example data directory. To visualize the generated tracks, simply run `examples/visualize_track.py`, which will produce and AVI video file which shows the original video with tracking bounding boxes overlaid.

All detections and generated tracks conform to the formatting of the [MOT16/17/20 Challenge Benchmark](https://motchallenge.net/).

## Using MF-SORT
The API is divided into three main classes: `Detector`, `Detection`, and `MF_SORT`. Detector is a wrapper around YoloV5 which allows for simple object detection for use in the rest of the tracking pipeline. Note that it is *not* required to use this detector for the pipeline; it is only included as a convenience. Detection is a wrapper to contain the information (bounding box and class score) for the detections generated by Detector or any other object detection framework. MF_SORT is the actual multiple object tracker which takes in these detections frame by frame and produces the tracks. MF-SORT has a predict/update loop interface that should be familiar to anyone who has worked with Kalman filters in the past. In addition, there is also a `step` method which wraps the predict/update functions which is recommended for most use cases. For a complete worked use case including detection, tracking, and visualization, see the scripts in the `examples` folder.

## Acknowledgements and License
* All credit for the MF-SORT algorithm goes to the original authors. Please see their publication [Fu et al, 2019](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34120-6_13) for further details
* Parts of this repository were inspired by or taken directly from the repositories for [SORT](https://github.com/abewley/sort) and [DeepSORT](https://github.com/nwojke/deep_sort), both licensed under GPL-3.0
 * This repository is also licensed under GPL-3.0 
